foreign
I'm here today to talk about like the
last 30 years I've been working the last
10 we've been building cloudflare I'm
going to talk to you about that today
the Lessons Learned caveat very big
caveat
this is one company's experience I've
been doing this for 10 years across the
whole Arc from a million in run rate to
approaching a billion
and
I'm going to share my experiences their
mind I didn't get them out of a book I
didn't copy paste out of some Harvard
text these are my insights and I'm just
going to share the things I thought were
relevant
contextually we're not allowed to
promote so I'm not promoting but we're
helping to build a better internet we
work with a lot of companies we process
about 20 of the web that's context
lots of customers very long tails so
millions of customers some spend nothing
some spend a lot with us and this is
just a representative sample of the
customers that we have
I've been with the company for a long
time
50 employees about when I joined Steve
Wozniak does not work with cloudflare
but this is the only photo that I could
find from the early days we're about 50
people fast forward
we went across the threshold Republic
actually three years ago yesterday and
very interesting like a little tidbit on
this is of the 10 people that are in
this picture that were involved with the
company
seven of them
seven so a seven to three ratio seven
were back when it was 50 people that
were involved then so I've been it's
this long longevity and that's like my
experience I don't think that's normal
in the space but it's my experience so
as I talk about this I've been there a
long time and a lot of the other folks
have as well super excited to share some
of the things that I think are important
and I I had like this long list of I
want to talk about this I want to talk
about this so I'm talking I have to give
you some reference so the way I thought
about bringing it up is in the three
phases this is not some textbook phasing
these are mine so like less than 50
in terms of ARR so Lefty less than 50
million dollars in ARR phase one phase
two 50 to roughly 250 million the lines
are like a little blurry and then from
there marching across a billion dollars
and cloudflare is on a long journey like
there will be more phases but these are
the three that are relevant to us today
all right let's unpack let's get
straight into it phase one I have some
props and the things that as I was
thinking about
today is like magic eight ball like the
future is somewhat uncertain in phase
one if you flip it over like your goal
is to make things more certain by the
end of this phase
so as I was thinking about what what if
I were to go back and retell the story
on what I thought was important and what
were the lessons that I learned one it's
Builders so hiring the team you need
capacity I showed up there was nobody
else building out the revenue part of
the organization so you're like I need
capacity and as you think about adding
capacity what I really focused on was
Builders people that were willing to
show up when it was not obvious this
thing was going to be a success right
the magic eight ball like future
uncertain you've got to find people that
are like enthusiastic and irrational
some combination of those two things
that want to build we had plenty of
people that were looking for a job I
wasn't looking for those people looking
for people that were willing to show up
and do what it takes and some of the
stories that like really represent that
is we hired somebody as a salesperson
four weeks in I said Travis I've got a
lot of customers that need somebody to
talk to because it's not going well can
you do this thing at the time it was
almost 10 years ago can you do this
thing called customer success and you
just said yes so you're looking for the
mentality of I will do whatever it takes
to make this thing successful and I'd
categorize those folks as builders
this next one is prepare to be
embarrassed
and it's really around a couple of axes
the first is in the beginning when
you're figuring out the product and your
scaling and you have lots of people that
are starting to tug on the service it's
not going to work all the time it's
embarrassing and if you're good at what
you do like one of the most I I think
one of the best determinants of great
people that are out in the market is
will you sell to people you know are you
willing to bring the service to your
friends are you willing to bring it to
family are you willing to bring it to
former colleagues and you're looking for
people that are willing to do that
because they're like irrationally
enthusiastic
and when it doesn't go well they're
going to be embarrassed you're going to
be embarrassed so my my learnings I look
back is I was embarrassed all the time
embarrassed by well did you oversell the
work yeah we're not really all that yet
we're still figuring it out did you
oversell the product
like where have you gotten yourself into
this uncomfortable position and as I
look back like embrace the embarrassment
that's part of this phase
and I I really
we'll talk about how you squeeze that
out across the other phases but in this
phase like be prepared because you're
embarrassed a lot
and I and I the next is around celebrate
the wins this is talked about a lot but
I made a little like a little
modification in here it's like celebrate
the Big W wins everybody will talk about
celebrate little wins I think the big
W's are important if you celebrate
everything it feels like everybody's
getting a trophy and I that's great for
kids soccer
there are some studies that suggest
that's not great for kids soccer like
I'm not here to unpack that but what I
will talk about is
celebrate the big wins in the beginning
in this phase we celebrated the winds
not with a person it wasn't about that
person it wasn't even about that team it
was about the whole company we crossed
over a threshold and delivered x million
or or finish the project we actually
bought a pinball machine for the company
and in hindsight
like you weren't like though sure that
was a good idea somebody was like let's
get kombucha and then somebody else said
I don't want to bring you know
uncultured processed
drinks to the organization get people
sick like let's let's do a pinball
machine so we did a pinball machine and
like that is a part of our heritage and
it's a reflection of celebrating the
wins
I kind of would focus on the big W's
don't celebrate them all but make it a
team win and try to like memorialize it
that pinball machine is a part of our
culture
the next is painful for me personally I
was with a smaller company prior to
cloudflare that didn't work and we got
over our skis on capacity and like the
worst days are when you're rolling and
we're going through an environment where
there are some reductions in force like
if you've done that and you didn't have
to do that because it wasn't Market
downturn it was because you got over
your skis you got overzealous you're
irrationally enthusiastic and you hired
to that standard
it's not awesome you made a mistake so I
like when we were thinking about it this
time is we're sort of constantly on this
tension of I need more capacity
but I don't want to go over capacity if
you get too many people sitting around
with not enough work they get bored and
that's where the drama starts so as I
think about like the the call to action
here is I would rather have a little bit
more demand being asked asking people to
do a little bit more than maybe the
capacity model suggests and be a little
bit under capacity there's tension
because in the beginning
sort of ramp up the team and show growth
and take load off of people but I would
pull back a little bit that's if I were
giving myself advice for the next time I
do this like under capacity versus over
capacity I think wins
and then this this like to wrap up this
section like the thing you're trying to
do in getting past the you know future
out come uncertain is you're trying to
like learn and you're trying to get
these Loops in place and how how much
can I learn how fast can I learn how
much can I absorb you will be asked
in various forms what did you learn
lately and where I think it comes down
for me I was asked at a board level all
the time like what have you learned what
have you learned what have you learned
and I'm like no no like here are the
results let's talk about that like what
have you learned what have you learned
in the early phase you have to be really
clear with like what's the Insight that
you've gleaned
what can you take away like doesn't have
to be something that you were good at
could be something you failed at but you
learned and I like keep a cheat sheet of
what you've learned flip over the back
page and keep the back part of your
notebook full of well this customer
doesn't this customer type does not like
this service or these service
disruptions cause these problems
Downstream so I think about this
over the whole course of this phase keep
documenting what you've learned
it's really important it'll come in
handy when you're under pressure like on
the stage like what have I learned well
I don't remember let me go to my book
all right phase one
get rid of the uncertainty
phase two like
you're kind of irrationally enthusiastic
in the beginning phase two like you've
got something cooking you have something
that is working and now you're ramping
right this is I felt a little bit odd
about was it 50 to 250 million is it 50
to 150 million I don't know make it your
own like this is this is just sharing my
own observations and my own experience
but it's it definitely starts post the
oh
not not really working like it's working
now and you're in this constant scaling
and ramping phase
consistency I I
love endurance
events and like this is all about
looking for a little prop here it's like
how good are you at working out
and maintaining consistency this is like
one of those power bar things and
the key to long-term performance is
consistency and in this phase how good
are you at looking at the same metrics
over and over even when they don't tell
you the story that you like if you don't
like the story don't change the metrics
right away maybe you can but like
deprecate those things slowly if you
don't think it actually matches the
business
but actually watch the metrics and try
to get consistency in there like in this
phase consistency really matters
and it ties into my next Point around
using winches
a winch if you're on like a if you're on
a boat and you're trying to get a line
to stay you pull on it to get the sheet
in like typically a winch is what you
put in place so that the line doesn't go
back out when the wind pulls on the sail
right you lock it in and you lock it in
you lock it in sometimes people use
winches on pulling out a car that goes
in a ditch
right winches the whole idea is that it
only goes one way when you pull it in it
doesn't slide back and I think about
this in the construct of building
long-term durable Revenue get get
customers that you think actually going
to renew that have a good experience
crap or throwing not awesome examples of
what your business will be long term
into your stack of customers and they're
trading that's not helpful you're
burning Cycles on the business if you're
learning that's cool
but if you're just adding revenue or
adding customer types that you don't
think have sort of long-term potential
like they're going to roll back on you
and it's like letting line out it's like
letting slack out into sale it's not
going to hold the power so I think about
like try to have something ratchet to
where you're adding it and you know it's
going to stick and you add it and you
know it's going to stick and you add it
and you know it's going to stick so
that's my that's my sort of reference
around winches
learn how to say I don't know a lot back
to the earlier phase it's about being
embarrassed this phase you don't have
all the answers because you're growing
really fast
and in my experience
there were a lot of things I didn't know
and you know if you go back I've I mean
early 50s now is in my mid-40s in this
phase and I don't think I was that
comfortable saying I don't know this
frequently so I have a trick
like learn how to say I don't know
differently like oh I haven't cracked
the code yet that's a good proxy for I
don't know
like that's acceptable and learn how to
say I don't know what other languages I
don't know pick something that you like
but you will not have all the answers
and be comfortable saying I don't know
especially when it comes to being
inspected going through board meetings
you will not have all the answers they
are paid to ask smart questions and
they're trying to find like how do you
think about it are you self-aware so I
find ways to say I don't know
and also be prepared for like always be
asked for a little more I find this
phase as I look back I was talking about
you know be consistent and what's the
key to being an endurance athlete well
it's consistency
you're working hard in this phase you're
expending a lot of calories to get the
scaling motion to work to be consistent
durable repeatable
and you're kind of getting you're
getting a little worn out in here but
you're gonna chronic you're consistently
being asked for a little more like hey I
know you did that I need a little bit
more so be prepared for that and I I
don't know if I'm suggesting to keep a
little bit in reserve just be prepared
to be asked for more constantly
like constantly this is this is a
product of success
they'll ask other questions if it's not
working
but if it's working I'm like a little a
little more let's go a little bit faster
can you give me three percent faster can
you give me five percent faster and you
need to be prepared to answer that and
the answer can't be oh my god did you
not just listen to what I just you know
we just put up all these results why are
you asking for more like that's the job
of scaling it's uncomfortable
and it goes on my next point which is
like no coasting we have this
um it's become very obvious that if you
watch the duration of being at a company
and building from a million dollars in
Revenue to a billion dollars in Revenue
you don't get there by slowing down and
like backing off the pedals you're
constantly pushing harder and harder and
harder and you want people around you
this is a very important part of my own
DNA and the culture that we're building
no coasting you can't show up and like
oh I'm I'm tired for the next three days
or the next three months like it's okay
to take PTO there's all this unlimited
PTO it's intentional to try to give you
the flexibility to take the time that
you need but when you're shown up we
expect you to show up and care and work
hard and I I think that this is a key
element of this 50 to 250 million you're
going to get tired your teammates are
going to get tired make sure they have
time to take time off
but when they're at work and working
like you got to be pulling no coasting
and that does not change I I wasn't sure
where to put this which phase but it
landed here and I think it's applicable
across all the phases
all right phase three there's like
something happens in phase two phase
three we showed the the sort of public
offering phase and if you look really
closely if you want to go back like
everybody had an orange tie on or some
orange glasses some orange flare and it
was an incredible event
but it is it is over so fast I have not
taken this tie out of the packaging
since I wore it on that day
um if anybody needs one and they are an
orange branded company and they're going
to be you know up there with Stacy
Cunningham or her replacement on the
NYSC the NASDAQ I'd got one you can
borrow it it's like collecting dust it's
over like it is an ephemeral thing as
you move into this phase
you've crossed the line you're no longer
in the sort of
you're not in the like uh outcome
uncertain phase you're not in the well
we don't have any of these scaling
mechanisms in place you're expected to
be able to endure
at this 250 mil and you could say it
happens 150 million a lot of companies
go public in there a lot of companies
get bought in there I'm not over
rotating on whether it's 250 or 100 or
150 or 500.
markets determine that but there's a
point at which you cross the line and
you're expected to have a lot of
endurance
this is not easy but recognize the shift
it's very different the last phase was
about like being creative and flexible
and figuring it out like those things
don't go away but you're expected to be
able to do this repeatably every day day
in day out and that is very different
it's sort of like it dovetails into my
next theme which is around
governance
there's always somebody looking over
your shoulder in this phase it's quite
different than the other phases you
don't have a lot of oversight certainly
in Phase One when you're less than 50
million in Revenue it's many ways it
just you know just us kids running the
company that changes in phase two and
phase three it's it's gone
governance is cool and it exists
to provide a framework so that you feel
comfortable to continue to operate you
can't see everything and know everything
and deep dive into everything anymore
Embrace governance it'll make your life
a lot easier it certainly did with me
our internal audit folks like they
actually can be your best friends they
can be helpful and that is not obvious
in the early part of the phase this is
where I think a lot of folks that are in
my shoes they don't like people showing
up and putting their fingers in your pie
and sort of checking the temperature and
checking whether it tastes good too much
salt like you're kind of offended
especially if you've been doing this for
a long time
like hey I like take a look at the
charts aren't they great
like no process matters and I I can't
overstate that it changes a lot in this
last phase at least it did for us
and if you embrace it it becomes much
easier to deal with and you sleep a
little better because you can't know
everything
just like today I'm kind of
uncomfortable up here like there are
really smart people that are judging
every word that comes out of my mouth
I'm kind of used to it now in terms like
I'm always uncomfortable this phase is
not easy you don't get to do the easy
things
nobody brings you hey I've got this this
problem that you can solve with like a
flick of your pen like those things are
they're in the rear view you are only
working on uncomfortable things
like I'm doing an uncomfortable pause
right now do you feel a little
uncomfortable watching me
it's uncomfortable it never stops
my day is a series of uncomfortable
conversations
my CFO said that a few years ago and I
just kind of laughed I'm like yeah
you're right and I don't want to talk
about that anymore can we talk about
something else but it's true so
recognize that that happens in this
phase and be prepared for it
it's very different than the other
phases you have this happy go lucky
you're getting to work across customer
problems and things that you're
naturally oriented to and naturally like
you're probably not going to be doing
that a lot in this you're going to be
looking at the things that nobody else
can solve
and there's a lot of that that's
required of your you as a leader in this
phase
be comfortable being uncomfortable
it kind of goes in the next part you
everything gets measured
and it's not your choice
you may drive metrics and you may
suggest metrics
and others will drive metrics and others
will suggest metrics and kind of back to
this governance thing everybody's going
to measure things and it's internal then
you have these external metrics that
some smarty pants with a spreadsheet is
doing and like it's really good it's
just a really long list
so all you can't keep it all straight
but you have a responsibility to be
aware that everything is getting
measured so be mindful that you have to
be able to absorb a lot of information
and you have to be able to understand
the context of what they're measuring
and that like that's also quite
different from the earlier phases
because usually you're driving the
metrics and you're defining what metrics
matter in the earlier phases this is
quite different you no longer get to
define those
I debated whether to put this one up
here
board Dynamics I'll say this about your
board changing over time in the
beginning typically like in our industry
if it's venture or somebody putting
money in oftentimes they'll take a board
seat so your board is people that have
put money
and or they've found in the company or
they're really close to one of those two
groups everybody's interested in the
outcome of the company and typically
they have a lot of skin in the game
fast forward through the process a lot
of some of those folks will still be
involved
and you will bring in experts you'll
bring in people that are professional
board members you'll bring in people
that are really smart in certain lines
of the business whether that's go to
market or product or engineering or
audit or like there's a bunch like it
changes
and it can be subtle you'll have people
roll off and you won't even realize that
they're there anymore you'll have people
roll on and you'll meet new people and
the Dynamics have changed just like
they've the Dynamics change across
phases your board changes too and
be mindful of that take advantage of
them they're really smart people that
are engaged with the company oftentimes
like the work to be done just changes at
the board level and you should try to
develop a really good relationship with
your board and be mindful that the
composition will change over time
all right I had a slew of things and I'm
like God doesn't really fit in one phase
doesn't fit there but I thought it was
important
so I'm going to cover them here these
are like always do the following
I don't know if I should use those words
like always and never kind of
challenging when you're up on stage and
being recorded but let's try it
experiments
I use and I put this in quotes for a
reason I use experiments as like a magic
like open sesame or get out of jail free
term
learn how to like give yourself the
latitude to try things doesn't take a
big plan we're just going to run an
experiment over here
it gives you the latitude to try stuff
and not know the outcome like if you do
15 pages and you will in 24 months it's
going to look like this and we guarantee
that the outcome are like this well
that's that's great that's kind of not
what I'm describing I'm describing the
when you don't know the outcome call an
experiment and then everybody at least
my experience has been people's anxiety
level drops they're like oh okay the
experiments are cool go ahead
how much do you need for that how much
time do you need what can I do to help
you it's just change like the Lexicon of
using experiments versus making plans
and making changes it puts people at
ease and my belief is that if you put
people at ease you'll execute better
so I like it's like a magic Elixir I'm
sharing that with you and folks back in
the office now go that's why he uses
that experiments term all the time
this is obvious the first part is
obvious do things that don't scale it's
true you will do them if you can be
intentional about it it's a little bit
easier
you will do things that seem really odd
and like ah like you can only do this
for a few weeks because I don't think
this is going to work yeah but you gotta
solve a problem now and you're going to
learn something the thing that I
appended to it is take an inventory
keep a list of those things that you did
that you knew were not going to scale
because you're going to have to go back
and fix a lot of those when you go oh
well we only did it for six it was only
supposed to be here for six weeks well
we're six months in or six years in and
it's still running
what are you gonna do about it you have
to like you're you are creating debt
when you do things that don't scale
and it's it'll help you if you kept a
list of things or at least a a list in
your mind or a list on the back of a
notebook so that you're not sort of
surprised me like oh my God I totally
forgot we did that
keep a list
show up and care
I had this like appended to the no
coasting reference but I thought it was
worth mentioning
across all the phases and back to this
notion where I started with Builders
wanted
you want people to show up and care
about what you're building
and that starts with you
if you are like ah this is an
interesting company I don't really know
anything about the space that's fine
like get into it
figure out what the customers are going
to be using you for get into like the
problems that have existed and why
if you can't get yourself excited about
why you're showing up and doing the work
that you're doing or about the use case
how are you going to build a team that
is going to pull when things are hard
care about it I think that the the
[Music]
the downside
when you do this wrong like
you don't really care the work is going
to show it and all that scaling that you
did before it's going to be like on a
really sandy Foundation it's not going
to work
test for this always and some people may
show up and care for a while and then
they don't
that may be a good example if you if
your answer if you're talking with
somebody about performance problems
you're like yeah but you were great and
you were perfect for this phase like but
maybe they don't care anymore maybe they
just sort of ran out of it and that's
okay
it's an always required
I can't overstate this this matters a
lot because the intensity as you're
going through building these companies
they take a lot out of you and if you
don't care about what you're building
it's really hard to do a great job
this is like a
the embarrassed piece is like learn to
say I'm sorry
and
you say I'm sorry a lot and you have to
mean it people are watching they're
going to try to figure out well do you
really care do you really care that I
tried to do something because you asked
me to do it it didn't work like get on
my back
do you feel do you feel bad about it
and it's it's constant like it's this is
hard but you have to mean it when you
really care about what you're building
and it doesn't go well and there are
down certainly like people
people are involved you have to be able
to say I'm sorry whether that's a
customer internal or you know your home
team your family team where you're like
hey I let you down I had to do this
thing at work
I'm really sorry it's the it's the four
reels part like really mean it
and going back to being like an
endurance athlete like learn to live
with your setbacks but get back up and
keep going
be honest
um
kind of a part of like I don't know
haven't cracked a code yet look at
yourself I'm like you know what you
think is going well and what you think
is not going well be honest with
yourself be honest with your bored be
honest with your team
bad news does not age well there's all
these little axioms it's true
and then as Leaders whether you're an
individual contributor that people look
up to or if you're running an
organization
these things scale because you have a
collection of people showing up and
working hard and working on a problem
that they care about
if it worked
make sure that everybody feels like that
win small W or Big W make sure that that
win is shared you get good feedback
share it if there is terse or pointed
feedback that something didn't work like
step up and say ah you're right first of
all recognize what is being described
take the blame so that you can get on
fixing it
it's all about moving forward and
getting on with fixing it's never about
being perfect it's all about making
progress and I think about like sharing
the credit and taking the blame as a way
to do that faster how do you go faster
and the last is thank you I know we're
out of time many customers here thank
you for listening to me thank you for
taking the time there's a q a session
it's that way and it's 30 minutes
thanks very much well thank you for
following over here I think I saw a lot
of the faces that are here now maybe 30
minutes ago but yes
yes yes thank you thank you for
validating that
what can I do to help like I'm I'm here
to serve what questions can I answer
and I will try I will do my best to
answer your questions directly and not
avoid them too much uh yeah just to
remind the have Ike to get your uh
question answered so we'll be looking
around for you yes and I will direct you
back to a mic if you just call it out
good afternoon uh thank you for the the
other uh talk as well you mentioned at
the end that you have to be in it to win
it you have to be really excited about
work and there might be a time where
somebody's been a great performer for
let's say eight years and then the
passion dies in their eye and you
mentioned maybe it's time to maybe let
them do something else if you've found
experience either finding that something
else internally or is it in your best
interest to find something else
externally because it's hard to lose
that much institutional memory but I
also understand if you're checked out
you're checked out so what are your
thoughts oh I I love that question it's
a hard like I love you going it's
straight to like that's not an easy
warm-up question that's like straight at
it thank you for doing that
um
if you're I think I would start with the
end in mind where you said like there's
there's a bunch of Ip if you've had
somebody at the company for a while
we historically have not required people
to come in knowing the industry so you
invest a lot in folks learning the
industry and and oh by the way the
industry is moving so
they've picked up things while the
company has been picking up things so
you've all learned it sort of at a pace
and it's it's reasonable for folks to
get fatigued I think it's very normal
the question is like is it a I'm
fatigued and I just want to do something
else
and is that something like a different
function or is that just I just want to
work on a separate set of problems we're
helping to build a better internet
that's our that's sort of our charge do
you want to keep doing that or is it you
want to go and help you know insert
solving other problems
and I I try to Pivot on like what
problem do you want to solve and if
you're just tired solving this problem
for a while what's the facility to give
you time to recharge and is that
measured in minutes SEC you know seconds
minutes days weeks
longer than that there are there are
mechanisms I always try to retain the IP
because you spent we spend a lot of time
hiring people we all do you put a lot of
energy into it
sometimes you get those wrong and
sometimes people just are not a great
fit later and your responsibility is to
make them find you know is to help them
not make them help them find something
else
I try to have a bias towards finding
something internal first or at least
trying to solve the fatigue first thanks
for the question
somebody please have another question
I have one ah thank you
uh the the question on the strategies of
retention of people while you're growing
from the first to the second phase yes I
can imagine akamais and companies like
that might be going through your your
AES especially the good ones so what
type of things did you do in this
first and second stage to retain and
motivate the team to continue batting
and investing in cloudflare yeah thank
you question just to put some more
context on it phase one is is like when
you're still roughly small and figuring
it out I I put a number in there was
less than 50 million in Revenue
but let's just say you're going from
tens of millions to hundreds of millions
in Revenue across that curve how do you
retain people and what do you do I I
kind of go back to our earlier point
which is like are you still interested
in the problem
and
if you're a high Growth Company often
across that Spectrum you're adding other
use you're adding other use cases
specifically meaning your portfolio of
services is expanding
and
that does two things one it gives you
more problem surface area for people to
engage with
but it does the other thing is well just
it makes it harder it's confusing so
the surface area is like a double-edged
sword but I use that as a as a way to go
back and talk about well there's all
kinds of problems that we're trying to
solve what is the problem that you want
to solve and that you were asking a
specific question around like
competitors or others coming in you know
burning down the list of your employees
you have to assume that's always going
to happen and if
if you take pride in who you're bringing
into the team
so as soon as somebody else gets when
did they want it like you should kind of
celebrate like ah we've built something
others want and I think about embracing
that
not hiding from it in fact some of the
best stories start with
well I had this the competitor called me
and they tried to recruit me and it
makes you like it makes you
uncomfortable when one of your employee
says that and they say but I use it as
an opportunity I learned about their
product and then your anxiety level
comes down a little bit so it's a
culture of just assume your best people
are constantly getting asked to come and
do something else it's better to have
that transparency so that one you can
figure out like
are some of your best employees like a
little loose in the saddle better to get
ahead of it and then if competitors are
coming in
I would almost use that as validation
you don't want to lose your team
like that's not the goal but the goal is
to retain people but try to get these
things to the surface that might cause
somebody to be more
loosen the saddle and willing to go
somewhere else so I think it's um
if I were to sort of encapsulate and
play it back I would say don't make a
taboo assume your competitors are going
to burn down your employee lists and try
to use it to your advantage somehow
thank you for the question
didn't have a stock answer for that
um Chris thanks for uh talk which was
very enjoyable and
I have the dreaded two-part question the
first part is Oh you talked about the
importance of measurement along the
different stages of your company's
growth and evolution what did you
measure
and then the part two is looking back on
what you wish you had measured instead
oh wow that's such a good question so
I'll try to answer the first one while
it gives me time to think through an
answer for the second one so what did we
measure and then
what do we wish we'd measured
um
I'd say like all along our journey there
are a set of met here here's the
learning that I would share
along your journey you're going to
measure things that are obvious you're
going to measure growth rates you're
going to measure growth rates around
product categories and you're going to
measure productivity and you're going to
measure CAC ltvs all these things like
plenty of metrics have been defined to
measure
and I'm not sure you're going to make up
a lot of new ones but you'll probably
make up a few that are very specific to
your business
what I if I look back so we did all
those just to answer a question like we
did all those standard metrics and I
think you you start with kind of none
and then you have too many and then you
shrink back you're like actually these
are the ones better
that's like the arc for us on the ones
that we did measure the ones that I wish
that we'd measured
you when you go through this public
process you are you have the standard
metrics that you you know Revenue gross
margin ebitda like all the standard
things that you can find in our investor
relations website
then there's the secondary measures like
they want to know your customer accounts
these are non you know these are
typically like not on the the income
statement of the balance sheet they want
to know retention rates they want as
much
detailed information as they can to
inform their models
and that's to be expected what I think
that I wish that we'd measured earlier
is some of those things and the
component pieces the secondary measures
were something that you evolve into and
I I wish that we'd measure some of those
component pieces way earlier and I we
have good hygiene on these things back
to my comment around governance is cool
we had
making sure that we're measuring the
right things but
when something is a public measure you
want as much runway as possible so it's
not like did we not measure it it's like
could you have done it a little bit
earlier
and I would pay attention to those
secondary measures
hi Chris
um what phase did you start focusing on
international market sales and what do
you have any tips for that
um were you born Global yes like it's a
good question so
we were born a little bit Global and
I would say that our International poll
so we try to invest behind demand and
when our service like our services for
developers fingers on keyboards
practitioners Network Engineers Security
Professionals and if if English was
because we didn't translate the website
if English was a primary language or a
secondary language or Google translate
was really good in that local dialect
like that's what our map looked like in
the beginning
and that was that's where we started and
we kind of go back to these sort of
funny these funny internal meetings
you'd have where you're like well who's
covering
Australia
we don't have anybody in Australia we're
not Incorporated there we you know can
barely spell it
and then you get like oh well you cover
Australia like you can use
and you go down this list of carving up
the world which seems funny in hindsight
but you start somewhere
and then
you know skip over the covering it from
Super remote then you start putting
people out there so we went down the
list of
typical like here's where our demand is
coming from here's where we're going to
go we had the benefit of having demand
already not everybody has that benefit
some companies have to go out and spend
a lot of money to drive demand and you
want somebody close as you're spending
that money we were reacting to demand in
the beginning and then investing behind
it and I that's I think a Hallmark of
our business but if you look at like the
other stories around like now you know
there's demand coming out of certain
markets
we would take people that understood the
product
we're a practitioner driven you have to
understand the product to get the win
and get to somebody to to have the
experience of success using your service
so we would take our team and sort of
like you go to UK you go to Australia
you go to and you know insert
part of the world that we wanted to do
more in so we were very uh prescriptive
in having people rotate out before we'd
opened a remote office we always wanted
somebody to seed
preferably permanently
but at the very least for months and
preferably for years and that motion has
worked for us and then but I would say
it did start with
invest behind demand other businesses
don't have that luxury and like there
are people that are more well educated
to talk through that
all right so I have uh two questions but
they're quick the first is uh how do you
close the gap between forecasting
and CRM data
and your team's behavior and execution
so that's the first question how much
time do we have
I'm gonna have to time box this one keep
keep going and the second is just a yes
and or no question is like do you
believe in playbooks for business can I
start with that one I'm going to start
reverse order
um thank you for the question
um
the first is around closing gaps and
managing through what you can see in the
data versus what you think reality looks
like and then the the second was do I
believe in playbooks
The Playbook one is a real um I'll start
there because I I think this one's kind
of fun
I think it's playbooks are good I think
they have a purpose
I talked about the phases phase one
being small phase two being Super Hyper
growth and you definitely have something
in phase three being you know it's more
of a proper going concern public more
more than likely a public entity
I think if you take you hire someone
somebody has a Playbook or you bring
your own playbooks if you take them too
early and just say hey here's what we're
gonna do
I think it's like super high beta it
might work out
but the likelihood that the context for
what those Playbook and I'm talking
about people bringing playbooks for a
second
if you bring a playbook in you say we're
going to deploy this
I don't think context was really
considered in those in that Playbook
generation it was created in a separate
environment
maybe it works I've seen it not work
more frequently than not so I don't
start with playbooks as a starting point
I will start with like what are we what
are the physics of what we're doing and
then build up our own playbooks and then
and then say oh well we don't need to
recreate the wheel let's copy paste this
portion of somebody else's Playbook that
we admire
but I I have a very specific like no
playbooks first and I not everybody in
my role feels this way so I'm an end of
one I know others that are like I bring
this Playbook and we're gonna hit this
hard
um you should
evaluate which one you think resonates
in the environment
then the question around
how do we close the gap
on what you can and I'll reframe it as
what you can see versus what you think
is going to happen
and that's like a
there's a lot of software chasing that
right now there's a lot of smarts I
don't know if you're one one of these
companies is like a leading question it
is a leading question thank you
um
I should have you come up here and tell
us how the industry thinks about
automating this
um I think it's an art and science when
it comes to forecasting and I don't
think I can sort of articulate the six
things three or art and three are
science in like 30 seconds but I'm happy
to take that offline
hi
um Roxanne I'm very much in phase one so
we'll appreciate any learning that you
have from that this is more kind of a
culture leadership question we'd love to
know what you've seen be effective and
maybe not effective in terms of
instilling a culture of ethics and
inclusion in sales teams I think there's
often so much pressure on sales teams
and so this is a place that lawyers get
nervous and then on the same side it's
historically not been the most inclusive
in a broad range of metrics so we'd just
love to know how you've seen you know
things uh work or not work there
say more about your question just double
click a little bit more yeah so I mean
on the ethics side like um
his uh if you talk to a lawyer and you
ask them about anti-bribery they will
give anecdotes about hey if a sales team
feels a lot of pressure and they hear
from the organization we care about
what's doing right but wink wink make
your numbers they'll feel a need to cut
corners and then on the inclusion side
kind of just I'm sure all the things
you've seen like not um having an
archetype for what that you know great
go-getter sales person looks like that
might not affect me um you know Etc
um and thank you so much for this I know
it's a spicy question yeah
thank you for the question that's a
there's a lot of nuance to that and I
feel like there's two separate topic
areas one being
how hard do you stress the system
and expect people to color in the lines
that's
really contextual
there are bright lines around if you put
this on the front page of the New York
Times or you know maybe it's some
version of
insert like maybe it's the economist I
don't know who it's like everybody would
consider sort of unbiased I'm not going
to make a comment on that but he put it
on the front page of where people would
read and expect sort of a balanced
perspective would you see it the same
way
um
said differently would you know if your
grandmother knew this about what was
happening would she agree and
as a leader
I think your responsibility is to make
sure that you're on the right side of
that and you're demonstrating the
behaviors and you're articulating when
it challenges you when I got into a
situation where I was like ah I'm pushed
really hard to make decisions and to set
the tone for
you described it as performance versus
like uh now my words coloring inside the
lines and staying inside a process
if it feels wrong if there's like
something in your gut that tells you
it's wrong listen to it
and
going back to this like governance is
cool comment it applies early you just
may not have an internal audit team you
may not have somebody that's looking
over the shoulder but there are people
around you that you can draw in and back
to this concept of you may not have all
the answers just learn how to say I
don't know and check yourself but it
typically starts when you know something
feels wrong and how do you express that
to the team I think it's typically
through stories
um here's the situation that was
uncomfortable for me or for me here's
what I did about it and outline a
process and typically It Like It lines
up with a um I don't know the answer but
I'm going to talk about the process and
if I follow this process I'll feel good
about the answer that's that's the
Ethics Line that that's my comment
around your ethics question
um
and then on the the inclusion side
we're all on a journey to try to have
the most diverse teams
and diverse teams win because you get a
very strong mesh of I hadn't thought of
it that way thank you for pushing me
I hadn't thought I had
a local market in this way thank you for
bringing that context to the surface
so that
my reference point and the way I
visualize this is like how do I have the
strongest mesh of people on the team and
you're right if it's all everybody looks
the same like those fibers are going to
rip really fast
whereas if I have folks that have
diverse experience and I think it's an
and I create an environment where people
can speak up
and they feel safe and
and listen to like I think it's as much
about the safe and listen to
and then having a team that values
diversity of opinion and the debate and
then a little bit of the Socratic method
without turning into chaos because at a
certain point like you got to kind of
line up and that's not your question
around inclusion but I think it these
things start to become related so as
long as you're uh you're mindful around
I think about it in terms of a mesh a
strong mesh and I'm happy to talk to
folks offline about that
okay Chris thank you question so this is
regarding like public companies like uh
you have seen what has happened in the
market and how do you manage uh negative
reflexivity especially if the market cap
goes from say close to 100 billion to
let's say 20 billion and especially
regarding two key vectors uh in terms of
sticking towards growth and then
um so again in terms of sticking towards
growth like keep on driving the growth
and then maintaining or retaining key
employees the word that sticks in the in
what you just asked like is not being
overly reacted you said reflexive not
being overly reactive by understanding
your question
like how do you not be overly reactive
yeah especially I think the reflexity
reflexivity is a term that George Soros
introduced which basically says that if
the market cap goes down then the
chances are that organization starts
taking behaviors which is different than
producing the value and it impacts
actually two different vectors Vector
one being chasing growth growth growth
you can't do that because now you have
constraints in terms of almost Capital
you deploy and then retaining talented
employee becomes harder because
especially in the growth companies some
amount of their compensation is based on
equity and things level
I think there's a certain amount of how
you measure expect how do you manage
expectations and keep your true north
um
I
I go back to like what is what is the
problem set that you're trying to solve
and it is there still a problem set that
exists in the construct of your business
model
and over time like how do you maintain
consistency between those two so this is
the problem we're solving this is the
business model it's probably going to
evolve it's going to evolve with
competitors that evolve with market
dynamics and how do you have as little
daylight sort of pulling you off that
path it's almost like that you've seen
the E-Trade commercials like follow the
green line
I I think about that as as you're asking
the questions
there's it's good to be reactive to new
information you should be willing to
recalculate when you have new
information do a recalc but don't do a
constant recalc and whipsaw the team and
don't do a constant recalc if you know
that there are long cycles and you just
happen to be in an off cycle so I I
think there's more to that but those are
the some of the the framing that I would
put in place I'm happy to talk about
more of that offline
I'm curious about
how you think about goal setting and how
that's changed as cloud4 Fair has grown
so at our organization we've sort of
tripled in size over the past two years
and it felt like early on what worked
well was inspirational outrageous
impossible goals big bee hags right yeah
and now the board is like predictability
and I'm curious and in my view that
leads to sort of more mediocre outcomes
or it can and I'm curious about your
experience with that
I think it's
um like two I have two different axes
I'm thinking about responding to and
like your your question like change the
change the axes
on me as I was as I was listening the
first is I think about goals in that
I like to have a team-based system first
when we're small
how do you have everybody doing all the
work required to hit that goal and like
not auguring in on well I only care
about this thing so I think team goals
are a good way for organizations to have
concentration on the bigger outcome and
not losing sight because they just want
to do the thing I I describe
Builders wanted as compared to
individuals that just want to do a job
so that's where I thought your question
was starting that's I thought I thought
about that I think it's important to
call out then there's a question like
as you start to get traction and you
want to continue to have really big
audacious goals
um
a Big Town
I love a big addressable Market
an unfair share of that
and
the thing that keeps me awake and it
hasn't come up yet is I I worry about us
living up to our full potential so I
think setting big goals helps you sort
of stay on that path maybe a little bit
of like stay on the green line
the question is do you create goals that
are unachievable
because it's like a little bit of
bravado
the downside of setting those goals is
you create a let me say an upside of
doing it right you create a culture of
success and like success repeated it
equals confidence
and I think confidence matters a lot
especially when it's not obvious what
the outcome is going to be confidence
matters having people show up and care
and keep the enthusiasm and the
endurance
a culture of success will help you ride
over those speed bumps a lot easier so
I don't think these two things are you
know having big aspirations and setting
big long-term goals I don't think
there's anything wrong with that and I I
really like those things because it it
keeps you on the path of living up to
your full potential
if you just set those and they're not
grounded in fact along these little
micro steps along the way you run the
risk of losing this culture of success
and I think that's the guard rail that I
would manage around if you don't feel
like people are being successful or
don't think they can be successful
problem
and you have to reconcile those two
often that's just a function of timing
and how you set sort of stretch versus
near-term we know we can do this
and then that gets down the rabbit hole
of like forecasting
thank you for the question it's like
it's a very insightful question and it
gives me like anxiety because you live
through this you want the tension
between culture of success but always
can I have a little more please can you
go a little faster like that's the too
much daylight behind between those is is
problematic
what are some surprising
um examples I guess of challenges and
failures that you've had to overcome the
learning learning and building the
muscle for an Enterprise large
Enterprise go to market motion oh
it's say it again just the first part of
your question well
what are the like the
amazing examples or surprising stories
you have of
building the large Enterprise go to
market motion okay how much time do we
have on this one um
I think if you've done my job long
enough
you look when you get up in the morning
and you look at yourself in the mirror
like I see so many disappointments and I
wish that we'd done this differently
um
we're a company that's gone from sort of
like heavy practitioner Focus
and starting off at the lower end of the
market in in some of the categories and
then moving up as the product matures
the Enterprises have different
expectations
than
a practitioner that is just doing this
on a hobby site as an example
and I what I
what I think is a challenge is if your
business has this really like a lot of
uh surface area between the two
many companies will abandon the low end
to go after the high end
and there's like a whole I'm sure
somebody here across saster is doing a
really smart strategy talk on
low end high-end wear too we've always
had the mentality of like we want if you
want to help build a better internet if
you really want to serve
and create
a set of services that
are all about use cases on the internet
they should be across all categories
and that is
back to earlier around the goals like
that's a big goal to have a service that
fits that surface area
so you we could have
moved our Focus up and had our roadmap
become more and more focused and
Enterprise and sort of abandoned alone
we didn't do that we think about sort of
stretching like how do you stretch the
product anchor it you will not leave the
practitioner there's lots of reasons why
you don't want to leave them
you don't want to leave exposed Your
Flank exposed we're building something
for the long term Etc
but
more tension so we've tacked down and
said we will not abandon the
practitioner we will not abandon the low
end
and it gives us like well you have to be
low cost you have to be low priced you
have to be really easy to use like all
these things are not bad for the
Enterprise so that I would say the
examples of where that has not gone well
is maybe where we've not thought about
stretching or we've tried to stretch too
fast or we've left something thin that
at the Enterprise level like
has to be Enterprise grade and where I
think we've gotten it wrong sometimes is
sometimes an Enterprise customer will
adopt features that are really early and
are really practitioner we typically get
things shaken out at the practitioner
level over and then over time move them
to the Enterprise level where we've
skipped that step I think that's where
when I look in the mirror I'm like I
wish that I'd done that differently and
probably had a little bit more
patience in allowing our biggest
customers to get access to features and
put them in the really critical
environments I probably should have
shaken it out longer at the low end so
like that's probably the one example I
would give you and I I'm sensitive that
I'm now keeping you from your next
session I need to give up the stage
foreign
[Music]